---
layout: post
title: The War of 1812
categories:
- blog
---

With America now established as a new nation they began trading with other countries. During this time Britian and France were at war. Paranoid that America was supplying the other with food and weapons and British and French ships regularly stopped American ships to search their cargo holds. Oftentimes there was violence involved. Americans were angry at being treated this way and in 1807 the embargo act was signed ending all trade with the rest of the world. The goal of the act was to punish Britian and France by not shipping them any supplies the it did not work. Britian and France managed to succesfully go on without American goods. As it did not amount to anything, before being replaced  by James Madison, Thomas Jefferson repealed the Embargo act. But British and French ships continued seize American ships. Anger against Britian grew and finally the Warhawks (people who wanted war with Britian) won. And in June of 1812 war was declared. American troops under William Hull, crossed the border into Canada and demanded the British surrender. Even though they outnumbered the British 5-1, Willian Hull still waited until he thought that **he** was outnumbered and then retreated because he didn't want his men to get hurt. But the war carried on with many more American victories including the burning of the city of Toronto. Then the British won some battles and then there was a ceasefire due to winter. When the fighting restarted the British managed to march down to Washington D.C. and burned the capitol the white house and the treasury but then the British troops retreated. In 1814 peace talks began. On Christmas eve 1814 the treaty of Ghent was signed officialy ending the war. But since communication was slow back then the last battle was fought after the treaty was signed. It was an American victory with 2000 british dead and only 13 American casualties. With the war over America was now recognized as a powerfu; country not just a colony.

---
