---
layout: post
title: The French Revolution
categories:
- blog
---

The french Revolution, where should I begin? France's frist king Hugh Capet was elected in the year 917 a.d. Up until the French Revolution, France was ruled by his descendants, the Capetian dynasty. In a medieval feudal system the people work for the king and in return he protects them. Such was not the cases from the 15th to 18th centuries as in the Ancien Regime (A term to describe the authority of the kings) a new philosophy called the divine right was established that said theat kings had a divine right to rule and so they were answerable to no-one except God fro their actions. So the royalty and nobility oppressed the common people because there was nothing to stop them. But nobody likes to be oppressed and so riots broke out. Unorganized as they were they were enough to get the king to call fro a meeting of the estates. Estate 1 (the clergy) estate 2 (the nobility) and estate 3 (the rest of the people). But since the third estate had more representatives than both of the others combined they were locked out of the conference room by the king in his fear that they would be able to overule the first two estates. As you can imagine this caused quite an uproar. Inspired by the recent American revolution, violence broke out all across France with the French people wanting to overthrow the nobility. The national assembly was formed to represent the people, and eventually the king and the nobility had to go along with the National Assemblies wishes. But within the National Assembly were radicals which wanted to get rid of the king and nobility once and for all. Louis the 16th (The current king of France) was put on trial and excecuted along with many nobles. The death of Louis the 16th usettled many European nations and not wanting a French revolution to spread to their countries they formed a coalition to try and stop the radicals before their ideas spread. In 1773 the National Assembly led by Robespierre instituated the reign of terror in which thousands of French lives were lost to the guillotine, most of which were innocent. In 1774 the National Assembly was overthrown in in what is known as the Thermidorian Reaction. the Directory took over from the National Assembly. It tried to write up a new constitution but did not manage to get much work done. In 1799 The french Revolution finally ended with Napoleon Bonaparte, one of the greatest generals the world has ever seen, establishing a dictatorship.

---
